so about  gun control about  the legislation of of gun control and  limiting uh gun violence  um  all of the technology that fits into  this  cellular phone i mean i have the i have  the rubber wrapper on this it's  unbelievable how slender  cell phones are now when i was a boy i  did envision this technological  transformation happening i was following  what was happening in technology i did  think that this was inevitable but i  imagined it being more like a brick  i did think i did think we would all be  carrying around with us portable  computers that incorporated telephones  and cameras and things computers and  word processors and email and at that  time the fax machine you know i thought  yeah the equivalent to the fax machine  is going to be miniaturized and made  portable this way so and so forth um but  i knew what circuit boards looked like i  knew circuit boards were becoming more  and more powerful but i never thought  circuit boards would be so tiny as this  um that i can place it between my thumb  and forefinger like that um i did assume  it would be bigger even though i i did  it was partly because of the science  fiction i was reading you know something  i reflect on partly just because of the  science  i thought we were moving towards a  society where everyone had this kind of  camp video camera and computer with them  at all times all of the technology that  fits into this tiny  cell phone  can be fit  into the  handle of a gun  all of it  it is possible  for every firearm in the united states  of america to take an image take the  photograph from a forward-facing camera  and to take a photograph from a  backward-facing camera of the shooter  and the person being shot and to send it  over the internet to the police station  instantly every single time  you pull the trigger it is possible  for a gun to record your location with  gps  a global positioning system the same way  that every cell phone records  your location with every text message  so some of you may have followed this in  the news some of you may not have i have  covered on my channel at least one case  where there's evidence presented in  court  of exactly where the person's car was  because they were text messaging while  driving and you get a map with a series  of dots saying yeah at exactly this  moment she was driving her car at this  intersection at this moment she was at  this stoplight at this moment she was on  the freeway because it's someone engaged  in this conversation that is  on the record for the government  recording her precise location what she  was doing moment by moment with the cell  phone  okay having all of the technology that  is within a cell phone  built into  every firearm  is  attainable it's easily attainable  there was a time when i was a boy  imagine if someone had said to you  when i was a boy i were talking about  more than 30 years ago  oh it'll be possible in the future to  have a fingerprint detector  that instantly reads your fingerprint  and confirms that you're the owner of  the gun  that might have sounded ridiculous or  impracticable 30 years ago  now every single one of you  is familiar with just how streamlined  that process would be just how instantly  you can verify your identity um  with facial recognition  right a lot of you have phones that scan  your face  with fingerprint recognition  right so if you allow  government regulation of gun ownership  we could be in a situation where when  someone is mugged  they pull out their gun and point it at  the mugger  and without even pulling the trigger  that gun is already taking photographs  and uploading them to the internet i've  been sending them to the police the gun  is already recording your exact location  the direction the gun is pointed in who  it's being pointed at  and it's even photographing it could be  recording audio too you could have a  microphone in there just as well as we  have it's recording exactly what  happened to all parties moment by moment  for the historical record  and in a sense if you're defending  yourself against a mugger that could be  a reason not to pull the trigger because  as soon as you got the gun out you can  say look  you know when this goes to court  you've already been had like it's over  so like you should not attack me you  should put down your weapon or you  should because  look when the cops  go over this footage they're gonna know  exactly what happened and who you are in  your face and where we were and what  happened so just just give up just wait  for the cops to come don't ruin your  life don't put yourself in jail longer  and don't get shot right so it may seem  paradoxical because you have fewer  shootings that way you could have a  database in the same way that today we  are recording  the location of every single voice  message every single text message every  single email  sent from a cell phone every single  bullet that's fired in the united states  america that's far fewer what do you  think there were more of in america  today text messages or bullets being  fired  and yeah a lot of that things in that  database it would just be okay at this  time in this location someone was firing  a bullet in the middle of the forest  they were killing a deer a lot of it's  going to be information that's not  legally useful or interesting but then  everyone involved would know that from  the minute it doesn't even have to be  when they pull the trigger it can be  when their hand is on the gun right it  can be before even if it's only a few  moments before they pull the trigger  their location is recorded their  identity  is look reported right who it is they're  pointing the gun at is recording you can  even have a rear-facing camera recording  that you're the one  holding the gun that today  is  easily attainable  in the united states of america and guys  guns are expensive  i mean do you think this would even  increase the price of firearms by 40  i don't  i i think this would be invisible i  think you might be talking about twenty  dollars  into the pricing because you can buy a  cell phone for forty dollars most of the  cost is the screen  you know  obviously we're not gonna have we're not  talking about having a full color screen  on your gun so you can watch movies so  you can watch youtube videos on your gun  right so there are a lot of features of  the phone that are not going to be there  it's going to be cheaper than a phone  anyways right but i'm saying the other  elements of cellular phone technology  cellular phone networks and so on those  can be  seamlessly invisibly integrated into  even a handgun of course there's plenty  of room in a shotgun  right so  we're not on the cusp  of a new technology that could change  gun violence  for several decades  that technology has existed  wouldn't you  like to know  what happened  in each and every gun battle  in america's conquest of iraq  america's conquest of afghanistan  the ukrainian war against russia right  now  with the same level of specificity  this could be the end of war crimes as  we know it  imagine a man who's aware of this  in time of war  this is one of the most common crimes in  in modern warfare imagine a man raping a  woman at gunpoint  sorry guys this is real talk we're  talking about the real world here  and he's aware  that this is being photographed his  precise location that it's his  fingerprint on the gun he's aware that  his army commanders are going to know  this that the police are noticed that  the people who write the history books  are going to know this that this could  never be secret  that even if he kills her after the rape  so she can't tell anyone else which is  also common in war in case you didn't  know  that his crime exactly what he did  exactly what he said can be a microphone  recording his voice in the content too  that that will be recorded  for posterity how would soldiers behave  differently even  with the stress of the battlefront  right even with the stress of being in a  war zone  if they know  who they shoot what they say and what  they do  is being recorded and that if they die  their heroism  will be recorded for their own parents  to see for their own children and  grandchildren to see perhaps right and  that if they behave dishonorably  what they do in war  will be there for their parents to see  for their grandchildren as well as  journalists politicians  military commanders we have reached the  point  where the medieval  fantasy  of an omniscient god  can be a technological  reality built into the steel housing  of every handgun  and this isn't new  most of you are too young to remember a  time before this technology existed i'm  just barely old enough to remember the  rise of the cellular phone  the idea  of mandating it  is new  okay  because most people in positions of  power  do not want  cell phone cameras and cell phone  recordings of what goes on inside  guantanamo bay  when prison guards just within the  normal prisons of new york city  rikers island whatever example you want  when prison guards brutalize and  intimidate and beat  inmates when prison guards shoot inmates  people in positions of power are quite  comfortable  with the  ambiguity  of relying on the word of the one and  only witness to the event who most often  is the man who pulled the trigger  that when police shoot people  there are people in positions of power  who are very comfortable with the only  version of events being the police  officers  version and i'm not comfortable with  that  we are progressing toward a society  in which  the professor  standing at the front of the university  has a camera recording everything he  said whether it's built into his hat or  his eyeglasses or  or what have you and where every single  student in the crowd  has a camera of some kind  recording what happens  and this will result in  a higher standard  of behavior  a higher standard of deontology if you  like  for the professors  and for the students alike  right  uh when i grew up there were these cases  of he said she said about professors  sleeping with students or professors  flirting with students professors saying  politically and correct things in class  sometimes professors saying racist  things in class okay  well that's over  we're entering into an era when even the  most trivial controversy of this kind of  a politically incorrect professor this  kind of thing  where your opinion  doesn't matter because we can all  consult what's on the tape quite  possibly from 40 different angles from  the perspective of 40 different students  each and every one of them has a  recording device  so what is the future of gun violence in  america  is it a future  of anonymity  and impunity  that's that's what military gun violence  has presumed that's what police gun  violence is presumed again there are a  lot of other people with guns like  prison guards  right  anonymity impunity no accountability  and  the elderly people who are currently in  power i'm sorry but politics is  dominated by geriatrics people over 80  the politics within the republican party  within the democrat party it's old  people it's people joe biden's age and  older who dominate politics in most  western democracies today they're real  comfortable with that all right and  there's a new generation coming up  that's saying whoa whoa whoa whoa  there's even a minor dispute between a  taxi driver and his passenger  it's all on tape like we're get we're  used to this you know sometimes the taxi  driver punched the customer  and but they say yeah yeah but i punched  the customer for a reason you have to  see it in context  we are accustomed to seeing footage of  um  diners at mcdonald's freaking out and  assaulting the staff at mcdonald's can  you trip they grab a bunch of plastic  spoons and throw them at the person  they're  you know  we know exactly what they did we know  exactly what they said  within the halls of power this may be  different where you are but in taiwan  every time members of parliament punch  each other  it's on camera and they do they fight  you know they beat they get into  you know fisticuffs in parliament they  were kind of little riots within their  house of parliament where they really  they really uh yeah yeah some i mean you  know  where you live your house of parliament  your you know  i would assume most of the world every  you know uh  every little thing that's said and done  inside your house of prominence  okay so you think the battlefront just  doesn't matter  you think what soldiers do in times of  war is less important is less  significant than  whether or not this taxi driver made a  racist remark that justified the  passenger in the taxi punching the  driver or you know whether or not there  are two different versions where the  taxi driver says the passenger refused  to pay money and the passenger says no  the taxi driver ripped me off and stole  my money  all of these petty disputes right we  don't rely  on witness testimony anymore we rely on  the god-like omniscience  of portable recording devices that are  in every home they're in every pocket  and they can be on your hat or glasses  or pin to your lapel  they're one of the major responses to  police brutality within the last five  years has been to demand that every  police officer wear a camera at all  times and then there's a separate  question which is constitutional who  gets to control that footage is that  footage immediately uploaded to youtube  where everyone can see it is it  somewhere  you know more freedom information act  request where everyone can see every  minute of every on-duty police officer's  life that if you're on duty with a gun  anyone can access that or as often  happens is the footage only released  after being censored after being edited  that it's controlled and that sometimes  conveniently police department should  say they lost the footage the footage  isn't available so  if you follow these kinds of things in  politics you are aware  these are these are issues  the existence and presence of the  so-called body cam that's the term the  body cam oh oh so only police officers  are going to wear a body cam huh  not not soldiers  in time of war does that matter more or  less again taxi drivers okay what about  the mayor  the mayor has no body cam  it's all just he said she said [ __ ] for  for the mayor  what about your member of parliament  like what about really important  political events  secrecy anonymity impunity or  accountability  transparency now again  i used the example of a university  professor  for a reason you know i realize it may  seem like a stretch we're talking about  gun violence now you're talking about a  university professor preaching from the  pulpit to his students okay  i have known so many university  professors  who would be ashamed  to watch the film of their own behavior  back again they'd be so ashamed just to  hear the words out of their own mouth  i've known university professors who  showed up drunk to give their lectures  there are university professors who show  up under the influence of other drugs  but there are also just university  professors who have a short fuse who  lose their temper there are professors  who preach ridiculous extreme political  ideologies extreme political views right  and without even someone else to  criticize them  i'm just talking to people i've known  right  i could sit down with so many people and  just play the tape  did you did you realize you said that  like did you  this will bring about a change on the  part of the behavior  of the university professor now guys  students are not angels  you know  i wonder what impact you would have if  you started really invigilating the  behavior of students or it's like look  not only is it we know you cheated on  the test  it's a real issue and i've really seen  it cheating on tests and exams  but like where  someone some authority figure is sitting  down with a student saying look  this is what you did during that one  hour lecture you played video games city  like we know  we have videotape evidence  that you sat and played video games you  weren't paying attention you're not  taking notes you're not doing this  but you know  maybe that you were sleeping whatever i  mean i've been in the room where every  other student behind aside from myself  the extent to which they're in no way  participating in their own education or  they're not doing what academia demands  of them  and you can have rules you can enforce  this you can  enforce higher standards of of  excellence and behavior so yes sam walsh  mentions um  car dash cams  so this is a camera on the dashboard of  a car  cars now increasingly have have cameras  built in  yeah  i  mean i'm just barely old enough to  remember when that was new  you know  um but for my generation i mean if you  were just five years younger than me you  didn't see that change  i remember reading a story in the  newspaper and it was very moving  and it was from a black guy  describing the racism  of the police uh this was in toronto in  canada and then grabbing him and  throwing them in the hood of the car and  this stuff you know  but what happened at that time  was that you found that many many of the  people who at that time because they  weren't aware of the dashboard cameras  themselves like because it was that new  many of the people who claimed the  police were racist and claimed they were  corrupt and claimed misconduct  the dash cam footage proved that the  person making that complaint was either  deeply dishonest or insane or both i saw  a lot of that  just at that time right when it was  really new that actually people have  become accustomed to being able to make  up stories about police misconduct now  some of the police misconduct was real  but so many people were lying before the  advent of the of the dash cam  right so this is another real  this is another real change  right  so um  yeah  this is an answer  waiting for someone to ask the question  as soon as we allow  the regulation of guns  this is the answer not just in the  united states  in switzerland in taiwan in japan in  communist china  the answer already exists  the answer is there and the answer is  irrefutable  some things are so trivial they should  not be recorded by hidden cameras or i'm  not saying hidden cameras miniature  cameras portable cameras right if you  put your kid into a daycare center  do you want the daycare center to have  cameras on all the time  let's say one kid in a million dies in a  horrible accident while they're at a  daycare center right let's say some  something terrible happens to just one  kid in a million at a daycare center do  you you want it recorded if something  goes wrong  if your kid is somehow  hurt or harmed do you want to have  according to that  we accept  that pilots in airplanes have no privacy  there is a black box recorder in every  cockpit every single word  that the pilot says is recorded every  decision every button he or she presses  while flying the plane why because it  matters we have an united unspoken  standard that some things matter  so they must be recorded however  inconvenient or embarrassing again  there's a further question that requires  legislation requires an amendment to the  constitution i think in every country in  the world what happens to that footage  does everyone get to hear it like is  there an access is there a process where  when the plane crashes if my  my ex-wife dies in the plane crash or  something i want to know exactly what  went wrong with the the pilot can i  access the recordings can anyone or is  it only released when some government  agency or some private corporation has  had the opportunity to censor it to  decide whether or not i've been put  these are these are big momentous  questions right  something as seemingly trivial as  dropping your kid off at daycare  something that obviously involves life  and death decisions like flying an  airplane  when you  pull  the trigger  of a gun  how can that possibly  be less significant a decision than  pressing send on a text message  of course your location should be  recorded of course a digital photograph  should be taken of course it should be  uploaded to a database  your pinpoint location on a map and  these other details should be  immortalized they should be available to  the authorities to the police i would  say they should be available to  journalists or to anyone who's  interested your own relatives your own  cousin is wondering what happened in  that shooting and you're involved you  were involved with they should be able  to get the objective  truth  right and we have already decided that  we're willing to sacrifice our so-called  privacy privacy a concept that's not in  the constitution that's not legally  financed just a cultural notion of  privacy we have decided that we're  willing to give up that privacy every  time we send an email from a cellular  phone every time we send a text message  of course  we should give up the idea of  impunity anonymity privacy when we pull  the trigger of a gun of course  there are not two sides to that debate  there is one answer  and it's the same answer for switzerland  for taiwan for thailand as it is for the  united states of america it is an answer  waiting for someone being willing  to ask  the question